Add Introducing mdox blog (#9)
saswatamcode/saswatamcode-web: content/blog/intro-to-mdox/index.md

There are alternatives to markdown, such as [AsciiDoc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AsciiDoc) and [Wikitext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikitext) (the markup language used by Wikipedia). Both are great, but they might be better for different purposes (Bartek: for example, AsciiDoc is great for writing books! I used it when writing my book with O’Reilly, it’s amazing.). But when it comes to software documentation, markdown is simpler and more adopted. And such great adoption leads to the existence of a multitude of tools!

## Nothing is all Bright

However, no matter if code is written in Markdown or not, maintaining correct code examples, formatting, links, frontmatter, and everything in between seems like a herculean task. There are quite a few bumps we found when working with markdown with bigger CNCF communities like Kubernetes, Prometheus and Thanos that makes contributing or adding docs more painful than it should be:

> 1. Formatting markdown is nice to have as it allows easier editing for future writers. . [Linters](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint) for markdown that tell you what is wrong do exist, [but fixing must be done manually which is a brittle and time-consuming process](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/issues/869) as humans do make mistakes. In the end, you don’t want expensive developer time to be spent on ensuring the correct amount of newlines or characters in a single line, do you?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Formatting markdown is nice to have as it allows easier editing for future writers. [Linters](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint) for markdown that tell you what is wrong do exist, [but fixing must be done manually which is a brittle and time-consuming process](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/issues/869) as humans do make mistakes. In the end, you don’t want expensive developer time to be spent on ensuring the correct amount of newlines or characters in a single line, do you?
```

Finally, how many tools are needed to tackle all these problems? Managing configuration for all of them requires having complex shell scripts/Makefile for some unified experience. Additionally, each tool has its own latency and performance issues, leading to huge “bake” times for documentation automation.

## mdox: All in one solution and more!

Fortunately, there is now a way to tackle all these problems (and more) automatically using `mdox`! Great tooling should get out of your way and let you do exactly what you need to without causing pain, which is what we want to achieve with `mdox`.

> [`mdox`](https://github.com/bwplotka/mdox) is a simple Go CLI tool, you can install using `go get` or pin using [bingo](https://github.com/bwplotka/bingo).

Reviewer: worth to add full `go get path`?

Author: Yes. Let's add since currently, it is unreleased. Or, we could release it tomorrow and update?

### Auto-formatting

Formatted markdown allows writers to understand documentation quickly and avoids surprises. On the other hand, it’s important to not expect writers to write perfect, formatted markdowns in a way you want. Even if you check certain formatting on CI, writers will get quickly annoyed when thrown into the loop of pushing changes, waiting for CI linter, see an error (output may just be the first error or simply incomprehensible), push again, learn about a new error elsewhere and repeat.. and lose a few hours in the process.

`mdox` solves those issues by formatting markdown files automatically, following the GitHub Flavored Markdown spec, and fails if it cannot format them. Simply, run `mdox fmt <files>`! If you want to run in CI, use `mdox fmt --check <files>`, which does not modify anything, just checks the output produced by `mdox` would be different than what was committed. If not, it will fail and specify exact diffs of what is not formatted or wrong.

![mdox showing diff on error](mdox_check.png)

`fmt` command ensures a smooth automatic experience for the contributor that also does not compromise the markdown quality of the project. Win-win situation!

> > Kudos to some Go developers who passionately started `[Kunde21/markdownfmt](https://github.com/Kunde21/markdownfmt)` fork, our tool used internally for formatting, with [goldmark](https://github.com/yuin/goldmark) parser help You might be surprised, but parsing and formatting markdown is quite advanced engineering in itself! We now maintain it, together with [https://github.com/karelbilek](https://github.com/karelbilek), [https://github.com/Kunde21](https://github.com/Kunde21) - a great open-source example!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Kudos to some Go developers who passionately started [Kunde21/markdownfmt](https://github.com/Kunde21/markdownfmt) fork, our tool used internally for formatting, with [goldmark](https://github.com/yuin/goldmark) parser help You might be surprised, but parsing and formatting markdown is quite advanced engineering in itself! We now maintain it, together with [https://github.com/karelbilek](https://github.com/karelbilek), [https://github.com/Kunde21](https://github.com/Kunde21) - a great open-source example!
```

### Link Checking

Broken links are super annoying, especially in software documentation. Trying to figure out the correct link as you're trying to learn something else is a distracting context switch. We can mitigate this by using a markdown link checker. However, most currently available link checkers seem to be underperforming, in a few ways:

> * They just keep on visiting links. This results in obvious rate-limiting ("Too many requests" errors) especially from very often linked resources like GitHub (Just imagine CHANGELOG (: ). You can fully disable checking any GitHub link, but then might have surprises later on! You can enable retries or dev APIs in those cases, but still, it would either take a huge time or will be hard to set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* They just keep on visiting links. This results in obvious rate-limiting ("Too many requests" errors) especially from very often linked resources like GitHub (Just imagine CHANGELOG (: ). You can fully disable checking such links, but then might have surprises later on! You can enable retries or dev APIs in those cases, but still, it would either take a huge time or will be hard to set up.
```

GitHub repeats a lot

* Some skip over relative links in markdown so those would still stay broken.
* Some cannot be run locally at all so a contributor cannot check before pushing and has to wait for CI.

This is why in practice, projects either disable link checking or add them as soft checks only ("never-fail" check, which means CI always passes, even if the link is failing).

`mdox` tries to solve link checking challenges in various, configurable ways:

* Relative links are checked.
* Links are gathered in a parsing and formatting routine.

> * Links are checked concurrently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Links are checked concurrently.
```

Practically, you can configure for each domain/path/regex a few type of validators:

* `ignore`: This type of validator makes sure that mdox does not check links with the provided regex. This is the most common use case.
* `githubPullsIssues`: This is a validator which only accepts a specific type of regex of the form `(^http[s]?:\/\/)(www\.)?(github\.com\/){ORG}\/{REPO}(\/pull\/|\/issues\/)`. It validates GitHub PR and issues links by fetching the GitHub API to get the latest pull/issue number and constructs matching regexes. This makes sure that `mdox` doesn't get rate-limited by GitHub, even when checking a large number of GitHub links but at the same time ensures that links are actually validated!
* `roundtrip`: All links are checked with the roundtrip validator by default(no need for including into config explicitly) which means that each link is visited and fails if the HTTP status code is not 200(even after retries).

This is what is currently implemented, but code is pluginnable to add more semantic link checking or other options. Contributions are welcome!

> ### Auto Generation Code Documentation

Reviewer: Love this section (:
